wKnown as the "Mad Dog of Cape Constance," Killian Cane is a terror to the Scattered Isles and beyond. Any time the "blood moon" flag appears on the horizon, ships turn tail and ports pray for rescue from the onrushing *Red Tide.* 

The only pirate with a reputation that rivals that of Thalgal Sharpstone, Cane is a wild terror where Sharpstone is cold and brutal. In contrast to the Cutlass of the Sea, the Mad Dog eschews the slave trade, preferring the more tried and true method of taking material plunder. He is especially fond of picking of rich Rienese merchant vessels, and will prey on Hatorian shipping as well, when a strong imperial naval presence is lacking. 

After operating for years as a privateer with a letter of marque from the kingdom of Aegeln, Cane lost his privileged status after a particularly brutal attack on the *Orange Blossom*, a massive, four-masted junk carrying many tons of spices, good, and some significant quantity of gold and jewels. The *Blossom* was also carrying, in addition to its normal crew, several wealthy merchants who had made an art of buying up cheap land, evicting the existing farmers (thus forcing them into poverty), conspiring to bankrupt smaller shopkeepers, and the like. It is rumored that while in a tavern in Port Glory or perhaps a Cantina in Rienos or teahouse in Takata City, someone associated with Killian Cane overheard one of these merchants remark that the peasants bankrupted by their business dealings and forced to live in swamps after better land was bought up were "good for naught but feeding the crabs." This statement was met with general approval and agreement from the speaker's companions. 

So when Killian Cane got hold of the passengers on the *Blossom,* he decided he'd feed *them* to the crabs. He had the merchants put in irons and brought them to the Isle of Crabs (poetic, though perhaps it got its name from the incident), where he had them all flogged with a cat o nine and staked to the sand. Another passing vessel found them some time later, and the Hatorian navy connected the dots. Imperial diplomats reached out to Aegeln, demanding that Cane's letter of marque be rescinded, and reluctantly, the Aegelenes agreed. Cane was informed on his next visit to Port Glory and sailed away enraged upon hearing the news, vowing revenge. 

