Rodia Temnon was  a scholar and wizard of a formerly wealthy family of Zahdia. His father, [[Augustus Temnon]], was a magistrate in the capital city until he was caught up in a plot by elven chauvinist factions in the imperial government and Church of Order. Augustus was executed for heresy when Rodia was sixteen, the family home was ransacked and the assets seized. As his father's eldest child and heir (and already a grown man in the eyes of the state), Rodia feared he would be seized next and fled. He spent the remainder of his teen years skulking around, constantly looking over his shoulder, living off the coin and valuables he managed to ferret away before he fled.

As the money slowly ran out, Rodia came to realize that the powers that be didn't consider him important enough to bother hunting down. He eventually took up the tome and quill and became an academic, becoming particularly interested in the flow of time. It was through these studies that he gained a career as a tutor...and began to unlock his potential as a wizard. The one bit of finery he hadn't managed or wanted to sell -- he wasn't quite sure which -- was a busted pocket watch with his family's crest emblazoned on the back. The crest had been his paternal grandmother's invention: his grandfather had had it emblazoned wherever he thought it sensible, and then Augustus had had it emblazoned everywhere else. Silverware, the mantle of every fireplace in the family manor, embroidered on doublets and robes, stamped on armor for the lone household guard, a half-orc named Gunther.

The crest consisted of a dragonfly, symbolizing progress, facing up so that its body and wings formed a T shape. The dragonfly's left eye was a sunburst, while the right was a crescent moon. To the left of its body was a field of wheat, symbolizing plenty, while to the right was an image of cresting waves, symbolizing change.